== Apache

Note that any cipher suite starting with EECDH can be omitted, if in
doubt. (Compared to the theory section, EECDH in Apache and ECDHE in
OpenSSL are
synonyms footnote:[https://www.mail-archive.com/openssl-dev@openssl.org/msg33405.html])

=== Tested with Versions

Apache 2.2.22, Debian Wheezy with OpenSSL 1.0.1e

Apache 2.4.6, Debian Jessie with OpenSSL 1.0.1e

Apache 2.4.10, Debian Jessie 8.2 with OpenSSL 1.0.1k

Apache 2.4.7, Ubuntu 14.04.2 Trusty with Openssl 1.0.1f

Apache 2.4.6, CentOS Linux 7 (Core) with OpenSSL 1.0.1e

Apache 2.4.18, Ubuntu 16.04.3 LTS with OpenSSL 1.0.2g

=== Settings

Enabled modules _SSL_ and _Headers_ are required.

=== Additional settings

You might want to redirect everything to _https://_ if possible. In
Apache you can do this with the following setting inside of a
VirtualHost environment:

=== References

Apache2 Docs on SSL and TLS: https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/ssl/

=== How to test

See appendix #cha:tools[[cha:tools]]

== lighttpd

=== Tested with Versions

lighttpd/1.4.31-4 with OpenSSL 1.0.1e on Debian Wheezy

lighttpd/1.4.33 with OpenSSL 0.9.8o on Debian Squeeze (note that TLSv1.2
does not work in openssl 0.9.8 thus not all ciphers actually work)

lighttpd/1.4.28-2 with OpenSSL 0.9.8o on Debian Squeeze (note that
TLSv1.2 does not work in openssl 0.9.8 thus not all ciphers actually
work)

lighttpd/1.4.31, Ubuntu 14.04.2 Trusty with Openssl 1.0.1f

=== Settings

Starting with lighttpd version 1.4.29 Diffie-Hellman and Elliptic-Curve
Diffie-Hellman key agreement protocols are supported. By default,
elliptic curve "prime256v1" (also "secp256r1") will be used, if no other
is given. To select special curves, it is possible to set them using the
configuration options `ssl.dh-file` and `ssl.ec-curve`.

Please read section #section:DH[[section:DH]] for more information on
Diffie Hellman key exchange and elliptic curves.

=== Additional settings

As for any other webserver, you might want to automatically redirect
_http://_ traffic toward _https://_. It is also recommended to set the
environment variable _HTTPS_, so the PHP applications run by the
webserver can easily detect that HTTPS is in use.

=== Additional information

The config option _honor-cipher-order_ is available since 1.4.30, the
supported ciphers depend on the used OpenSSL-version (at runtime). ECDHE
has to be available in OpenSSL at compile-time, which should be default.
SSL compression should by deactivated by default at compile-time (if
not, it’s active).

Support for other SSL-libraries like GnuTLS will be available in the
upcoming 2.x branch, which is currently under development.

=== References

HTTPS redirection:
http://redmine.lighttpd.net/projects/1/wiki/HowToRedirectHttpToHttps

Lighttpd Docs SSL:
http://redmine.lighttpd.net/projects/lighttpd/wiki/Docs_SSL

Release 1.4.30 (How to mitigate BEAST attack)
http://redmine.lighttpd.net/projects/lighttpd/wiki/Release-1_4_30

SSL Compression disabled by default:
http://redmine.lighttpd.net/issues/2445

=== How to test

See appendix #cha:tools[[cha:tools]]

== nginx

=== Tested with Version

1.4.4 with OpenSSL 1.0.1e on OS X Server 10.8.5

1.2.1-2.2+wheezy2 with OpenSSL 1.0.1e on Debian Wheezy

1.4.4 with OpenSSL 1.0.1e on Debian Wheezy

1.2.1-2.2 bpo60+2 with OpenSSL 0.9.8o on Debian Squeeze (note that
TLSv1.2 does not work in openssl 0.9.8 thus not all ciphers actually
work)

1.4.6 with OpenSSL 1.0.1f on Ubuntu 14.04.2 LTS

=== Settings

If you absolutely want to specify your own DH parameters, you can
specify them via

....
ssl_dhparam file;
....

However, we advise you to read section #section:DH[[section:DH]] and
stay with the standard IKE/IETF parameters (as long as they are >1024
bits).

=== Additional settings

If you decide to trust NIST’s ECC curve recommendation, you can add the
following line to nginx’s configuration file to select special curves:

You might want to redirect everything to _https://_ if possible. In
Nginx you can do this with the following setting:

The variable _$server_name_ refers to the first _server_name_ entry in
your config file. If you specify more than one _server_name_ only the
first will be taken. Please be sure to not use the _$host_ variable here
because it contains data controlled by the user.

=== References

http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html

http://wiki.nginx.org/HttpSslModule

=== How to test

See appendix #cha:tools[[cha:tools]]

== Cherokee

=== Tested with Version

Cherokee/1.2.104 on Debian Wheezy with OpenSSL 1.0.1e 11 Feb 2013

=== Settings

The configuration of the cherokee webserver is performed by an admin
interface available via the web. It then writes the configuration to
`/etc/cherokee/cherokee.conf`, the important lines of such a
configuration file can be found at the end of this section.

General Settings

Network

_SSL/TLS back-end_: _OpenSSL/libssl_

Ports to listen

Port: 443, TLS: TLS/SSL port

Virtual Servers, For each vServer on tab _Security_:

_Required SSL/TLS Values_: Fill in the correct paths for _Certificate_
and _Certificate key_

Advanced Options

_Ciphers_:

_Server Preference_: Prefer

_Compression_: Disabled

Advanced: TLS

SSL version 2 and SSL version 3: No

TLS version 1, TLS version 1.1 and TLS version 1.2: Yes

=== Additional settings

For each vServer on the Security tab it is possible to set the Diffie
Hellman length to up to 4096 bits. We recommend to use >1024 bits. More
information about Diffie-Hellman and which curves are recommended can be
found in section #section:DH[[section:DH]].

In Advanced: TLS it is possible to set the path to a Diffie Hellman
parameters file for 512, 1024, 2048 and 4096 bits.

HSTS can be configured on host-basis in section _vServers_ / _Security_
/ _HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)_:

_Enable HSTS_: Accept

_HSTS Max-Age_: 15768000

_Include Subdomains_: depends on your setup

To redirect HTTP to HTTPS, configure a new rule per Virtual Server in
the _Behavior_ tab. The rule is _SSL/TLS_ combined with a _NOT_
operator. As _Handler_ define _Redirection_ and use `/(.*)$` as _Regular
Expression_ and _https://$\{host}/$1_ as _Substitution_.

=== References

Cookbook: SSL, TLS and certificates:
http://cherokee-project.com/doc/cookbook_ssl.html

Cookbook: Redirecting all traffic from HTTP to HTTPS:
http://cherokee-project.com/doc/cookbook_http_to_https.html

=== How to test

See appendix #cha:tools[[cha:tools]]

[[sec:ms-iis]]
== MS IIS

To configure SSL/TLS on Windows Server IIS Crypto can be
used. footnote:[https://www.nartac.com/Products/IISCrypto/] Simply start
the Programm, no installation required. The tool changes the registry
keys described below. A restart is required for the changes to take
effect.

image:img/IISCryptoConfig.png[IIS Crypto Tool,scaledwidth=41.1%]

Instead of using the IIS Crypto Tool the configuration can be set using
the Windows Registry. The following Registry keys apply to the newer
Versions of Windows (Windows 7, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2008
R2, Windows Server 2012 and Windows Server 2012 R2). For detailed
information about the older versions see the Microsoft knowledgebase
article. footnote:[http://support.microsoft.com/kb/245030/en-us]

....
  [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\SecurityProviders\Schannel]
  [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\SecurityProviders\Schannel\Ciphers]
  [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\SecurityProviders\Schannel\CipherSuites]
  [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\SecurityProviders\Schannel\Hashes]
  [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\SecurityProviders\Schannel\KeyExchangeAlgorithms]
  [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\SecurityProviders\Schannel\Protocols]
....

=== Tested with Version

Windows Server 2008

Windows Server 2008 R2

Windows Server 2012

Windows Server 2012 R2

Windows Vista and Internet Explorer 7 and upwards

Windows 7 and Internet Explorer 8 and upwards

Windows 8 and Internet Explorer 10 and upwards

Windows 8.1 and Internet Explorer 11

=== Settings

When trying to avoid RC4 (RC4 biases) as well as CBC (BEAST-Attack) by
using GCM and to support perfect forward secrecy, Microsoft SChannel
(SSL/TLS, Auth,.. Stack) supports ECDSA but lacks support for RSA
signatures (see ECC suite B
doubtsfootnote:[http://safecurves.cr.yp.to/rigid.html]).

Since one is stuck with ECDSA, an elliptic curve certificate needs to be
used.

The configuration of cipher suites MS IIS will use, can be configured in
one of the following ways:

1.  Group Policy
footnote:[http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/bb870930(v=vs.85).aspx]
2.  Registry
footnote:[http://support.microsoft.com/kb/245030 [http://support.microsoft.com/kb/245030 ]]
3.  IIS Crypto footnote:[https://www.nartac.com/Products/IISCrypto/]
4.  Powershell

Table #tab:MS_IIS_Client_Support[[tab:MS_IIS_Client_Support]] shows the
process of turning on one algorithm after another and the effect on the
supported clients tested using https://www.ssllabs.com.

`SSL 3.0`, `SSL 2.0` and `MD5` are turned off. `TLS 1.0` and `TLS 1.2`
are turned on.

Table #tab:MS_IIS_Client_Support[[tab:MS_IIS_Client_Support]] shows the
algorithms from strongest to weakest and why they need to be added in
this order. For example insisting on SHA-2 algorithms (only first two
lines) would eliminate all versions of Firefox, so the last line is
needed to support this browser, but should be placed at the bottom, so
capable browsers will choose the stronger SHA-2 algorithms.

`TLS_RSA_WITH_RC4_128_SHA` or equivalent should also be added if MS
Terminal Server Connection is used (make sure to use this only in a
trusted environment). This suite will not be used for SSL, since we do
not use a RSA Key.

Clients not supported:

1.  Java 6
2.  WinXP
3.  Bing

=== Additional settings

It’s recommended to use Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=15768000 for
detailed information visit the
footnote:[http://www.iis.net/configreference/system.webserver/httpprotocol/customheaders]
Microsoft knowledgebase.

You might want to redirect everything to http**s**:// if possible. In
IIS you can do this with the following setting by Powershell:

....
Set-WebConfiguration -Location "$WebSiteName/$WebApplicationName" `
    -Filter 'system.webserver/security/access' `
    -Value "SslRequireCert"
....

=== Justification for special settings (if needed)

=== References

http://support.microsoft.com/kb/245030/en-us

http://support.microsoft.com/kb/187498/en-us

=== How to test

See appendix #cha:tools[[cha:tools]]
